gee -- solve generalized estimating equations --
an Splus library implementation

README VERSION 4.15 98/01/28
-----
1998 Jan 26/27 -- "unification" -- condense to
a single C source file, use 8.3 filenames to
ease porting to windows.  Change type of
received as.integer data in Cgee from "int*"
to "long*" so that code runs on DEC alpha.
Subsequent to the "unification", Dr Brian
Ripley made a number of code improvements,
and these improvements are incorporated into
this release (nominally 4.13 of the C source
codes).

The file set is now

README  (this file, version 4.15)
COPYING (the FSF GPL for distribution control)
README.too (addendum to README)
blurb  (for statlib indexing)
ugee.c (version 4.13 of C engine)
ugee.h  (version 4.1 of unified header)
convert.h 
f2c.h  (headers related to f2c conversion of LINPACK)
gee.d (version 4.8 of user doc)
ugee.q (version 4.13 of Splus support functions)
testgee.dpt 
tests.S 
testout.413 (output of tests.S)

1997 Dec 1 maintenance change A: repair offset
handling per Brian Ripley

1997 (September 08) maintenance change: separate
offset parameter eliminated (supply through model
formula); clean up certain segments of gee()
logic.  Thanks to Douglas Grove for comments.

1997 (August 13) maintenance change: problem
with working correlation estimation in presence
of singletons resolved.  Thanks to Donna Spiegelman
for comments.

1998 contact: carey@biostat.harvard.edu
-----

Modifications relative to last version (1994-1996)
a) memory leaks diminished or eliminated
b) cloglog link support added
c) installation tasks standardized

SHORT INSTALL/TEST DIRECTIONS FOR MOST POPULAR
UNIX PLATFORMS RUNNING Splus 3.4 

0)place all source code from the shar in the 
directory that you intend to use as a library 
component.  you should name this directory "gee"
or you may have to make some modifications
to the "dyn.load" commands used in the test
script.

 
1) Note that two versions of .First.lib are in the
Splus source code file "ugee.q".  By default, a
version that uses "dyn.load" will be loaded.
 
If you have a system that supports
dyn.load.lib, you can comment out or remove
the default .First.lib near the top of "ugee.q"
and use the alternative (thanks to Brian Ripley):
 
.First.lib <- function(...) dyn.load.lib(...)
 
You will need to do so on SGI and DEC Alpha systems.

After confirming or changing ugee.q to reflect
the required .First.lib source, run the following
commands
 
Splus CHAPTER *.c *.d *.q
make install
make dyn.load  # dyn.load.shared on SGI and DEC Alpha
 
2)perform the tests.  The file "tests.S"
is written so as to work from the source
directory.  If you run it from some other
directory, you will have to modify the
library() call.

Splus < tests.S > testout.new
diff testout.new testout.413

the diff should yield no differences
beyond platform or S-plus version 
identifiers.

-----

The file README.too contains miscellaneous
archival information.  Completion of this
revision was aided by the following "beta
testers":

E Altpeter -- contributor of new Windows archive
P Catalano
D Dunson
M Maechler
J Maindonald -- contributor of new cloglog support
P Ramsey
B Ripley -- much helpful advice on portability
A Rossini 
P Wollan

The revision was stimulated by Bill Dunlap (Statsci)
who created patches to rectify memory leaks.

Sincere apologies to any testers who are not
acknowledged here.


